README.md, before:

# Pawgress
Stay PRRductive

## Getting Started

### Docker
1. install docker desktop from : https://www.docker.com/get-started/
2. start docker desktop
3. run `docker compose up -d` via terminal on the project root folder to run the apps on background
4. for shutting down docker image: run `docker compose down`
5. if you pull any new changes on dockerfile / compose / package.json / package-lock.json, run `docker compose up -d --build`

### MongoDB
Mongoose is defined as an Object Data Modeling (ODM) library that has been built for MongoDB and JavaScript. It is used to define the objects with a schema which will be further mapped to a MongoDB document. 

We use MongoDB to manage our data in server.

### TS File
ts-node is a just-in-time compiler that compiles .ts files into JavaScript at runtime and then executes it. 

1. When developing, run `npx ts-node app.ts` via terminal on the server folder.
2. To exist, use `Ctrl + C`

### Local Access

- go to http://localhost:3001/ to access server apps

- go to http://localhost:5173/ to access client apps

Commit message:

added the env.template back and update readme

README.md, after:

# Pawgress

Stay PRRductive

## Getting Started

### Config files

We use .env files for each app. Before start running both apps on your local file, create .env based on .env.template files on the /client folder and /server folder.

The env.template contains a list of all environmental variables needed on each app. Contact us for the key configuration values.

### Docker

1. install docker desktop from : https://www.docker.com/get-started/
2. start docker desktop
3. run `docker compose up -d` via terminal on the project root folder to run the apps on background
4. for shutting down docker image: run `docker compose down`
5. if you pull any new changes on dockerfile / compose / package.json / package-lock.json, run `docker compose up -d --build`

### MongoDB

Mongoose is defined as an Object Data Modeling (ODM) library that has been built for MongoDB and JavaScript. It is used to define the objects with a schema which will be further mapped to a MongoDB document.

We use MongoDB to manage our data in server.

### TS File

ts-node is a just-in-time compiler that compiles .ts files into JavaScript at runtime and then executes it.

1. When developing, run `npx ts-node app.ts` via terminal on the server folder.
2. To exist, use `Ctrl + C`

### Local Access

By default, the server app runs on `3001` port and the client app runs on `5173` port

- go to http://localhost:3001/ to access server apps

- go to http://localhost:5173/ to access client apps
